langur development
v. 0.18

I hope you find langur useful. I've put a lot of work into it. It started as a project for learning, not as an end in itself, but I have made drastic improvements since. The syntax is relatively settled at this point, so I'd like to get to 1.0 soon. I only have so much time. If you'd like to contribute to the project, here are some things I'd like to see. While I don't have time for all of it, I do have ideas about how it could function and the syntax. I'm open to input.

To make 1.0, I would like to fix setting by index. There are at least a couple of issues here. One is efficiency. The other is that you cannot presently set by index if using more than a single index on a variable (as shown below).

x[1] = 123      # okay
y[1][2] = 123   # doesn't work

I make note of two kinds of "purity," one in regard to side effects, and one in regard to variables. Langur presently has strict purity in terms of variables. I'm not absolutely settled on this, so long as changes to this can be made that don't make concurrency difficult.

--Anthony Davis

possible things to consider...
resource management
    closes resources when finished, even if there's an exception
import modules
    presently parsed, but not compiled
    must account for global modes
    maybe move some built-in functions to be imports or pseudo-imports, uncluttering the global namespace
        give more descriptive names; can be aliased to short names
module compile
    global modes
    order irrelevant for module compiled declarations
        presently parses module and compiles declarations in reverse order
structures
OOP with composition
    no inheritance - I don't like inheritance in programming.
    I also don't like "everything is an object."
optional explicit typing
bitwise operations
    at least on explicit types
pointers
    using strict left-to-right syntax; none of the left/right business you see in C
concurrency
    maybe using go/conc library
    must trap/account for exceptions
dependency management (see Rust)
testing mechanisms
compile to native code

